Database Spec Statements (#50)
k8tre/k8tre: docs/spec/database.md

date: 2025-05-30
discussion: https://github.com/orgs/k8tre/discussions/9
k8tre-statements:
  spec: Databases should be treated as attached resources and may be deployed on the cluster, or apps may connect to off-cluster databases.
---

{{ spec_content(page.meta) }}

**Questions**:

1. **What should K8TRE Specification say about *in-cluster* DBs and what should it say about *off-cluster* DBs?**

>     Databases should be attached resources, explicitly referenced. TRE administrators may use an externally provided database service, such as AWS RDS, but where applications can use an on-cluster database, they should consider using the CNPG operator to deploy an instance of Postgres DB, rather than using a different Postgres helm chart and introducing an additional a dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Databases should be attached resources, explicitly referenced. TRE administrators may use an externally provided database service, such as AWS RDS, but where applications can use an on-cluster database, they should consider using the CNPG operator to deploy an instance of Postgres DB, rather than using a different Postgres helm chart which introduces an additional dependency.
```

Reviewer: We should define what `attached resources` means somewhere (can be in a different PR)

date: 2025-05-30
discussion: https://github.com/orgs/k8tre/discussions/9
k8tre-statements:

>   spec: The TRE must offer a Kubernetes-native mechanism for deploying relational databases on the cluster, and optionally can also allow microservices to connect to off-cluster databases.

Reviewer 2: Why?

This goes to the heart of what we're trying to achieve with the spec. You only need a database if you need a database.
- the reference implementation needs one for its core
- other apps might need one (but they shouldn't use the core one)

```suggestion
  spec: Databases should be treated as attached resources and may be deployed on the cluster, or apps may connect to off-cluster databases. Apps should not share databases.
```

discussion: https://github.com/orgs/k8tre/discussions/9
k8tre-statements:

>   spec: K8TRE Specification-conformant apps shall allow the use of the default DB. A K8TRE should integrate with an organisation's existing databases where appropriate.

Author: @vvcb @m1p1h could do with some input here I think: maybe a stronger claim like "K8TRE components/apps should use the default PostgreSQL DB by default, but may integrate with an organisation's existing databases where needed, provided they are treated as explicitly referenced attached resources"?

Reviewer 3: Agreed. I'd suggest, where permitted, a K8TRE operator should configure K8TRE microservices, dependent on a supporting relational database, to integate with the default relational database (i.e. PostgreSQL DB) available within the K8TRE framework. However, operators may choose to integrate an existing or provision an external relational database that is compliant with information governance and security standards.

Author: ```suggestion
  spec: K8TRE implementations must offer a Kubernetes-native mechanism for deploying relational databases on the cluster, and optionally can also allow microservices to connect to off-cluster databases.
```

I do like this. I think it fits the goal of avoiding prescribing low-level implementation details to ensure that community-developed components are reusable/adaptable across different deployments.

Reviewer 4: I like this.
As for the 2nd point, I am wondering if we should call out PostgreSQL or rather leave it open-ended, and instead note that the reference implementation uses (or likely to use) PostgreSQL? The reason being, I feel that the K8TRE spec should be specific-tech agnostic where possible. Just my 2p ;)

Also, should there be some guidelines around security and access controls of externally provisioned databases, so that these don't compromise the TRE or break SATRE principles?
